# Welcome

This repo houses the Gamemode 4 blog. It is hosted at the subdomain https://blog.gm4.co, but is built and hosted on GitHub pages.

## The Blog

### The Technology

This site is a static HTML generator. It is built on [HexoJS](https://hexo.io/).

You do not need to write Javascript to use it. It is much like Jekyll or Hugo.

This README will not outline creating custom functionality for the blog, but how to write a post.

In essence:
- Create a post
- Push to GitHub
- Hexo will generate the HTML from the templates and push to `gh-pages` branch.

### The language of Blog Posts

Blogs are written using markdown. You can understand more of this:
- https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/
- https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax
- https://itnext.io/github-markdown-cheatsheet-50642835effa

You can embed raw html into a post. An example of this is including an iframe tag to include a YouTube video.

```
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/VpejRJbGZiA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

### Commands

A blog can be created in two ways:
- `hexo new <scaffold_type> <file-link-name>`
- Copy a file in the source/_posts folder

#### `hexo new <scaffold_type> <file-link-name>`

##### Scaffold Type

A scaffold is a type of blueprint. 

These are used to automatically generate the basics of a post. Currently blog.gm4.co has three:
- draft
- page
- post

It is best to use the type `post` which will automatically generate the following fields:

```
title: {{ title }}
date: {{ date }}
tags:
- all
excerpt:
author:
---

```

**Title** - Derived from what is placed in <file-link-name>

**Date** - Generated at the time the `hexo new <scaffold-type> <file-link-name>` is run

**Tags** - Is a list separated by line breaks/paragraph breaks. You can see an [example of it here!](https://blog.gm4.co/tags/updates/). All posts start with the `all` tag.

**Excerpt:** - This is a short extract from the piece that is rendered on the home page and can be shown elsewhere

**Author** - This is who wrote the piece. Currently this can only accept ONE person.

## How to create a blog?

### Writing the Post

#### Initial Setup
Start by creating a post:
`hexo new post <name>`

The name will become the hyperlink that gets generated by hexo, and replace the `title:` tag.

Replace the `title:` tag with something more solid, title. Example are:
- "November Blog Update"
- "Changes behind the scene"

If the post is to come out later, set the `Date:` tag to sometime in the past, so when the page is built, it actually appears.

The `date:` follows the format of YYYY-MM-DD 24:HR:TM.

#### Post Content

#### Formatting

The posts are written in markdown, however you can include raw HTML tags.

#### Style Guide

There is currently no style guide. A few principals overscore this:
- Show the post to others in draft form, they can offer invaluable feedback
- Use semi-formal language/tone. Getting humor right is hard, so use it sparingly. It is easy to write in a fun than a *funn-y* way.
- Include images, a wall of text sucks
- A wall of text is okay, just break it up with headings
- It is better to be short and concise than flowery.

#### Images
Images for the site are store under `source/images/`.

Create a folder for the post and store all images in the folder.

Any previewing using a VS Code extension will not show the images, but the site will render them.

## Releasing a blog post

Blog posts are written locally, however drafting can be done in another program like hackmd or google docs which support markdown.

### Push to GitHub
After creating a post, you can then push to GitHub, or make a PR.

This will then trigger a pipeline process which will statically generate the site. This is then cloned to a branch called `gh-pages`.

This whole process takes approximately 5 minutes from last push.